Class Implementation Differences in Language 
By Eric Camargo
     Each C Plus Plus, Java and Python have their own advantages and disadvantages when it came to this project, and the class implementations that it took to create them.  Picking a “favorite” is most likely too subjective and not worth diving too deep into.  After all, everyone has their own preferences of what is more convenient and what feels more superior.  But if we approach the question of, which language among C Plus Plus, Java, and Python is objectively superior, then that becomes a question more rooted in technicality and applicability, rather than preference and opinion.  From a line-count standpoint, the python program is the most efficient, able to handle the class implementation of complex numbers in about 80 lines of code.  Java was able to do it in about 89 lines.  C Plus Plus  takes almost 140 lines to accomplish the task.  While all programs could likely be condensed a few lines, this is an interesting group of statistics that rank the line-efficiency of each language.  There is also the character count which may be an even more accurate way to gauge the efficiency of a language.  Rather than looking at the total amount of lines to judge efficiency, counting characters.  Python came in at 2421 characters, Java with 2129 characters, and C Plus Plus with 3431 characters. 
     The reasoning for this lack of correlation between lines of code and number of characters can be explained by Python having more requirements with if statements needing to be included, using more characters, however this allows less lines to be necessary for the complex equations handling.  Java needs slightly more lines, but with considerably less characters mostly due to its ability to handle the operations of the complex equations all in about 2 lines with very few characters necessary.  On the other end of the spectrum, C Plus Plus both required significantly more characters and more lines than both Java and Python.  
     This can be argued as an advantage or as a disadvantage.  One view on the C Plus Plus is that while it contains more lines and more characters, it is more readable, easier to understand and more to visually see.  A programmer can open the C Plus Plus program and try to break down each individual function and figure out what it does.  This can allow for a more modular approach to understanding the program.  Perhaps the programmer only needs to modify a specific function or add a function.  Contrast this with Python, where the entire program is necessary to understand in order to make modifications.  That’s where the drop off lies,  C Plus Plus could be argued to be more thorough and modular, but the Python and Java program are more efficient in having less to read.  In my experience, the most condensed information does not necessarily translate to easiest to understand information.
    There also comes into play the factor of operator overloading, something unique to C Plus Plus.  Through the operator overloads used in the C Plus Plus program for the complex numbers, we can dynamically use the operator, +, -, *, and / depending on what kind of data we are inputting.  The operators are able to be morphed into whatever the user needs for their own user-defined class. This makes it slightly easier to visualize what’s happening in the program where we can see each function within my complex class being called and using the data type it needs to, to produce the correct complex number.
     All in all, I believe that the most superior programming languages are between C Plus Plus and Python.  The advantages you get from C Plus Plus are the modality of the language as well as the ability to overload operators.  This provides users a unique feature that allows dynamic operators that can be used within classes however one needs them to in that instance.  This can become very convenient very fast and make things easier in C Plus Plus vs other languages.  As a personal anecdote, I was certainly more bale to wrap my head around the complex number problem using C Plus Plus more-so than the other two languages.  In the end, C Plus Plus proved to be the most feature driven language.  Not to mention that it inherently has extremely fast compilation times.  If it comes down to preference, one can make an argument that C Plus Plus can be tedious and a little inconvenient, but the advantages outweigh the disadvantages more-so than most other languages.  The other language that deserves to be mentioned for its superiority in the upper tiers of languages is Python.  For how few lines are required, and how few characters are required to make effective programs, it becomes worth mentioning.  I found it quite shocking that Python programs could carry about 30% less information than even the C Plus Plus programs, yet still get the job done.  While this sports no clear technical advantage, after all, this doesn’t mean that it necessarily compilers faster, runs in a superior way, nor makes it easier to understand, one could argue that it can be condensed unlike other languages.  All of that and its ease of use, really makes Python an adaptable language that programmers of various skill levels can utilize very well.


